All right, this is it,
this is the final stretch.
We're here and
I really want you to leave off with this
workshop with three core
principles that really make
up what production grade
apps basically entail.
And so the first principle is
that we impact over intent, so
this is related to our Pareto
principle from understanding
what problem are we
actually trying to solve?
And we've covered a lot of different
techniques, we've talked a lot about
different areas of view application that
can impact and solve certain problems.
But as you're looking at
production level applications,
the key thing here is figuring out what
kind of problem you want or need to solve.
And that should be what guides basically,
the implementation or the things
you're researching and trying to do.
So a lot of times, for example,
a great example of this is performance,
performance is a buzzword
that a lot of people use.
And so they will a lot of times go out of
their way to delete some lines of code or
optimize the whitespace in a way
that feels productive, right?
And the intent is good,
you want to ship smaller bundles.
But at the end of the day, this is why
the impact is more important than intent,
because what you really should be doing
is for something like performance,
you should have a baseline metric as far
as ping times, actual delivery size,
like ping to render times.
You should have a baseline of metrics, and
then figure out what can actually
shave off performance from that.
Because otherwise, if you're simply just
doing things for the sake of it, right?
For the sake of like, this feels like
we're improving performance because we've
now prevented an import
on this one module.
But guess what?
As far as the ultimate impact, it doesn't
really do anything for performance,
then we've spent time on the wrong piece.
And so when it comes to this, the other
thing that to keep in mind is a lot of
times in tech, we talk a lot
about the 10x developer, right?
And everyone likes to say, this is a myth.
And I think the key thing to remember
at the tech developer is not so
much about you writing 10 times more code,
but
really is about helping to
lift other developers up.
So let like enabling 10 other developers
to work faster, this is I think where we
need to shift this mentality and
why when it comes to conventions and
enterprise great apps,
the key question here is scalability.
Because if you can spend time to solve
a problem, that makes it easier for
x number of developers to ship faster, you
have basically achieved that 10x effect.
And this is why,
as we mature as engineers and
understand how we can best
provide value to our clients, or
whether to the company we're working for,
this is the key.
It's understand what matters to them and
how we can best address those problems and
make those things a reality faster.
And, I've talked about this multiple
times and repeated it, but,
I think this is worth emphasizing and
it's that context is everything.
A lot of these proven patterns
we've talked about have caveats,
there's a reason why basically everything
that we've talked about has pros and cons.
Because, if there's anything I'd
want you all to take away from this,
it's that ,when you're choosing the
technique and what you're trying to do,
you need to understand why, and you don't
understand what you're dealing with.
And so that is ultimately the the time
that we want to spend, so reading
documentation as far as like, why certain
things were designed or how they work,
and trying to figure out the caveats, can
be extremely useful in making the correct
decision, that will then correlate to what
we talked about earlier as far as impact.
Because if you can figure out for
example, a component design pattern that
solves your company's problem in
a reusable way, that's gonna be huge.
That's completely worth the time that
you would invest, but it's important for
you to understand the context in
which you're making those decisions.
So similarly for example, let's say
the props experiment that we did, right?
Kind of tongue in cheek and
it's funny to see basically say that okay,
if you have too many props just use slots,
and that's like a good rule of thumb.
But, for example, if your company is
creating its own component library, for
example, this rule sort of falls off the
wayside a little bit because, it doesn't
necessarily mean that having a long
props dictionary is a bad thing, right?
I talked about it for the most part,
it is, but there are context in which if
they help to enforce standards in a way
that help your company move forward,
then 100% break that rule and make
components complex with lots of different
props, because you want to constrain them
to certain types and certain values.
If you look at component libraries
like Vuetify for example,
this is the reason why on their docks they
have a giant table of different props and
different slots that you can access
because they need to allow you to
customize things in a way that like still
follows Google design specs accordingly,
but then allows you to escape
things in slots in a different way.
And so knowing when to break
the rule is really critical to
creating these production level apps.
And I set it at the beginning, but
I wanna end on this principle is that,
all code is compromised.
And so keep that in mind as you
make decisions for your apps,
use different techniques or
try different methodologies.
And know that, even things that
seem like they're perfect,
definitely have their drawbacks.
And it's important to always
question it at this level, so
that you can then make the best decision
for your team and company moving forward.